In the previous video, we have done looping to
do configuration on multiple router at once.
Next in this video, we are going
to learn about write configuration.
Remember that in cisco, the
configuration is not saved automatically.
Let’s check here,
do show ip interface brief exclude unassign.
Here we can see that we have loopback0 until
2, but we don’t save this configuration yet.
If the router is suddenly restart or shutdown,
the configuration will be gone. Let’s try,
stop the router, and then start again.
Let’s see the interface again, do show
ip interface brief exclude unassign.
Here we can see that loopback0 until
3 is gone. But fa0/0 is not gone,
why? This is because we already save the
configuration after configuring fa0/0,
so the last time we save the configuration
is after configuring fa0/0 and ssh.
After configuring loopback0 until 3,
we don’t save the configuration yet.
This is why loopback0 until 3 is gone. But
configuration on fa0/0 and ssh is not gone.
Let’s check it, ssh cisco@10.10.10.5,
this is the ip address of router 5,
Okay this is success, so the configuration
on fa0/0 and ssh is still exists.
But the configuraiton of
loopback0 until 2 is gone.
Okay, so now, let’s add the script to save the
configuration. So here after configuring the
loopback, let’s save the configuration
Here let’s add the command, do write.
Change the interface, let’s configure
loopback3, the ip address is 10.4.1.x, save.
Let’s execute the script again.
Just enter enter here.
Okay here we can see that we in router 1,
we success to save the configuration,
but in router 2, we are not
success to save the configuration,
router 3 success, router 4 success,
router 5 is also not success.
This is because we forget to
use time sleep after do write.
Let’s put time sleep here, let’s say
we will stop the program for 2 second.
Save, execute the script again, enter enter here.
Router 1 is success, so here configuring loopback,
do write is success, and we can
see the result of show interface.
router 2 is still failed to save the
configuration. Router 3 is also failed, router 4 is
success, router 5 is also failed. And also the show
is not success. so the time sleep is not enough.
Let’s edit the script again, let’s change
this become 3, and then in the show interface,
let’s change this to 1, save, execute
the script again, enter enter here.
Router 1 is success, router 2 is
success, router 3 is success,
router4 is success,
and router 5 is also success.
Okay so now we are success
to save the configuration.
Let’s check it, let’s say router 5, show
ip interface brief exclude unassign.
Here we can see that we have loopback3,
Shutdown the router, and then start again.
Now let’s check the interface again, do
show ip interface brief exclude unassign.
Here we can see that the loopback3 is still exist.
Okay I think enough for this video.
Thank you for watching and see you on the next video.